[ALG-1] Graph traversal algorithms: BFS & DFS (#10)
swiftingio/swiftingio.github.io: _posts/2023-01-06-Algorithms-Graphs-BFS-DFS.md

- DFS (Depth First Search)
- BFS (Breadth First Search)

It is really important to understand how they work and when they are most useful (in which use case). Below I tried to highlight the main features of both. I presented it in the table for a better understanding of the difference between them.

|                                                      | DFS                                                          | BFS                                                          |
| :--------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Main usability**                                   | Is commonly used for visiting (traversing) all nodes in the graph (or to be more concrete: in connected component ) | Is used when we want to find the shortest path in the unweighted graph |
| **Implementation**                                   | Using recursion (iterative as well but definitely less popular and used) | Iterative                                                    |

> | **Data structure used for iterative implementation** | Stack                                                        | Queue                                                        |

Reviewer: Tutaj piszesz że dla DFS jest zastosowany stos, a w implementacji jest Set. Może warto zmienić implementację na Array (nowe elementy są dodawane do końca tablicy, tak jakby był to stos). Dzięki tablicy można też odtworzyć kolejność, w jakiej algorytm odwiedzał wszystkie węzły (nodes).

Author: Jest zastosowany stos rekurencyjny. Set jest wykorzystywany do sprawdzenia czy widzieliśmy już element, żeby nie powtarzać tych samych nodów

Node 5 has no other children so we come back to the place when it can check another branch (in this case it will be  node 3)

And then algorithm starts to vist the new unexplored branch, so it goes to node one and then it finishes the job.

#### BFS

The visualization shows that we go level by level and I think this is the best way how we can imaging the algorithm .

<p align="center">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/swiftingio/blog/%2357-Algorithms-DFS-BFS/BFS.svg" width="643">
</p>

If we start with node id = 3 (first layer), then we visit 1 and 4 (second layer) then 2 (third layer) and last will be 5 (fourth layer).

### Implementation

Having this knowledge let's implement DFS and BFS in Swift. Additionally let's take a look at some additional topics which are very interesting as well:

- Finding the shortest path with unweighted graph
- Finding a cycle in an undirected graph
- Finding a cycle in a directed graph

#### DFS

```swift

// This struct will be used later in every algorithm
struct Node {
	let id: Int
	let children: [Node]
}

> var visited: Set<Int> = []

Reviewer: ```suggestion
var visited: [Int] = []
```

Author: Sprawdzanie czy node już był widziany będzie kosztowało o(n) a w secie jest O(1)

Reviewer: Fakt, w takim razie można mieć dwa różne  property - Set do sprawdzania i Array do odtworzenia kolejności 😉

                    visited.insert(child.id)
                    queue.append(child)
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

#### BFS + shortest path

Implementation with additional finding distance from the start node and printing a path (an important note here is that here we are discussing unweighted graphs. If we want to find the shortest distance for a weighted graph, we need to consider another algorithm like [Dijktstra's algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dijkstra%27s_algorithm)).

```swift

var parent: [Int: Int] = [:]

func bfs(_ start: Node) {
    var queue: [Int] = []
    var visited: Set<Int> = []
    var distance: [Int: Int] = [:]
    
    queue.append(start.id)
    
    while !queue.isEmpty {
        for item in queue {
            let first = queue.removeFirst()
            for child in first.children {
                if !visited.contains(child.id) {
                    distance[child.id] = distance[item.id, default: 0] + 1
                    parent[child.id, default: 0] = item
                    visited.insert(child.id)
                    queue.append(child)
                }
            }
        }
    }
}

> func getPath(_ target: Node, _ start: Node) {
>     var x = target.id
>     var path: [Int] = []
>     
>     path.append(target.id)
>     
>     while x != start.id {
>         x = parent[x.id]
>         path.append(x)
>     }
>     
>     path.reverse()
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
func getPath(_ target: Node, _ start: Node) {
        var x = target.id
        var path: [Int] = []
        
        path.append(target.id)
        
        while x != start.id {
            x = parent[x]!
            path.append(x)
        }
        path.reverse()
        print("Path: ", path)
}
```

| **Cyclce detection**                                 | Commonly used for cycle detection                            | Not very efficient for finding a cycle in the graph.        |
| **Complexity**                                       | O(V+ E)                                                      | O(V+ E)                                                      |
| **Practice**                                         | - https://leetcode.com/problems/shortest-path-in-a-grid-with-obstacles-elimination/description/ | https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-genetic-mutation/solution/    https://leetcode.com/problems/nearest-exit-from-entrance-in-maze/ |

### Visualization

#### DFS

As we said, the DFS is going branch by branch, is going deep as much as possible than it turns back and starts investigating a new branch. Having this in mind let's look at what could be the order of visiting nodes if we would start at node with id equal to 3:

<p align="center">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/swiftingio/blog/%2357-Algorithms-DFS-BFS/DFS.svg" width="643">
</p>

> Algorithm starts with the selection of some first branch and goes to the end (end means that encounters node with no other children, or all the children are already visited):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Algorithm starts with the selection of some first branch and goes to the end (end means that the algorithm encounters a node with no other children, or all the children are already visited):
```

> Node 5 has no other children so we come back to the place when it can check another branch (it this case it will be a node 3)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Node 5 has no other children so we come back to the place when it can check another branch (in this case it will be  node 3)
```

> And then algorithm starts to vist the new unexplored branch, so it goes to node one and then it finishes the job.

Reviewer: Wydaje mi się, że algorytm poszedł by dalej i też sprawdził że może iść do węzła 2 ?

#### BFS

The visualization shows that we go level by level and I think this is the best way how we can imaging the algorithm .

<p align="center">

> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/swiftingio/blog/%2357-Algorithms-DFS-BFS/BFS.svg" width="643">

Reviewer: Bardzo fajna wizualizacja :)

</p>

If we start with node id = 3 (first layer), then we visit 1 and 4 (second layer) then 2 (third layer) and last will be 5 (fourth layer).

### Impmenenation

> Having this knowledge let's implement DFS and BFS with Swift. Additionally let's take a look at some additional topics which are very interesting al well:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having this knowledge let's implement DFS and BFS in Swift. Additionally let's take a look at some additional topics which are very interesting al well:
```

- Finding the shortest path with unweighted graph

> - Finding cycle in an undirected graph
> - Finding cycle in a directed graph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Finding a cycle in an undirected graph
- Finding a cycle in a directed graph
```

#### DFS

```swift
var visited: Set<Int> = []

> func dfs(_ root: TreeNode?)  {

Reviewer: Przydałoby się pokazać jak wygląda typ `TreeNode`

Author: Good idea!

	guard let root = root else {
		return
	}

> 	visited.insert(root.val)

Reviewer: Dlaczego `root.val` zamiast `root` ?

Author: Zazwyczaj w tego typu algorytmach val jest unikalne, więc służy jako id ;)

Reviewer: Klasa `TreeNode` nie ma property`val`:
```
class TreeNode {
	let id: Int
	let children: [TreNode]
//...
```

Reviewer: Implementacja z `value` pojawia się dopiero w sekcji z [wykrywaniem pętli w grafie za pomocą DFS](https://github.com/swiftingio/swiftingio.github.io/blob/d8daafa2becdc6f22a2047c9a5f18ddc9de24b9e/_posts/2023-01-06-Algorithms-Graphs-BFS-DFS.md#detecting-cycle-in-a-directed-graph)

Reviewer: Typ `TreeNode` jest zdefiniowany więcej niż jeden raz. IMO powinna być jedna definicja tego typu (ewentualnie rozszerzona o potrzebne pola w sekcji z wykrywaniem pętli za pomocą DFS) i potrzebne jest **consistency** - wszystkie code examples korzystają albo z `value` albo z `id`. IMO Nie może być "żonglowania" propertisami `val`, `value`, `id` bo to zmyli czytelnika i nie wyniesie z artykułu tego co chcesz, żeby wyniósł.

	for child in root.children {
		if !visited.contains(child.val) {
			dfs(child)
		}
	}
}
```

#### BFS

```swift
func bfs(_ start: Node) {

	var queue: [Node] = []
	var visited: Set<Node> = []

	queue.append(start)

> 	while !queue.isEmpty { // maybe then this while is not needed anymore (worth to check)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	while !queue.isEmpty {
```
Sprawdzone ? 😉

Reviewer: Według książki "Wprowdzenie do algorytmów" ten warunek i pętla są potrzebne

Author: dokładnie, tak jak mówisz ;)

>   	for item in queue {

Reviewer: Ta pętla wydaje się być niepotrzebna i poza tym może się rozjebać, bo linijce 156 jest modyfikowana kolejka po której iteruje ta pętla

Reviewer: To powinno zostać zaimplementowane jak [poniżej](https://github.com/swiftingio/swiftingio.github.io/pull/10/files#r1103834825)

    	let first = queue.removeFirst()
   		for child in first.children {
				if !visited.contains(child) {

>       				visited.insert(child)

Reviewer: wcięcia się zjebały i trudno się czyta kod

						queue.append(child)
					}
				}
			}
		}
	}	
}
```

#### BFS + shortest path

> Implementation with additional finding distance from the start node and printing a path (an important note here is that here we are discussing graphs without weights. If we want to find the shortest distance for a graph with weights, we need to consider another algorithm which is Dijktstra).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementation with additional finding distance from the start node and printing a path (an important note here is that here we are discussing graphs without weights. If we want to find the shortest distance for a graph with weights, we need to consider another algorithm like [Dijktstra's algorithim](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dijkstra%27s_algorithm)).
```

> Implementation with additional finding distance from the start node and printing a path (an important note here is that here we are discussing graphs without weights. If we want to find the shortest distance for a graph with weights, we need to consider another algorithm which is Dijktstra).

Author: Done!

```swift
func bfs(_ start: Node) {
	var queue: [Node] = []
	var visited: Set<Node> = []
	var distance: [Node: Int] = [:]
	var parent: [Node: Node] = [:]

	queue.append(start)

> 	while !queue.isEmpty {
> 		for item in queue {
> 			let first = queue.removeFirst()
> 			for child in first.children {
> 				if !visited.contains(child) {
>     	    		dist[child] = dist[item] + 1
>     	    		parent[child] = item 
>   					visited.insert(child)
> 					queue.append(child)
> 				}
> 			}
> 		}
> 	}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	while !queue.isEmpty {
			let first = queue.removeFirst()
			for child in first.children {
				if !visited.contains(child) {
    	    		dist[child] = dist[item] + 1
    	    		parent[child] = item 
  					visited.insert(child)
					queue.append(child)
				}
			}
	}
```

`while !queue.isEmpty` zapewnie iterowanie po elementach tablicy tak długo jak są w niej elementy

Author: Dokładnie tak jak mówisz, ale wtedy nie będziemy przeszukiwać level by level, dlatego ta dodatkowa pętla jest tu potrzebna, żeby wiedzieć ile kroków dokładnie jesteśmy oddalenie od start node'a.

}

> func getPath(_ target: Node, _ start: Node) {

Reviewer: Fajna implementacja poszukiwania ścieżki wyplutej przez algorytm 👍🏻

  var x = target
  var path: [Int] = []
  
  path.append(target)
  
  while x != start {
    x = parent[x]
    path.append(x)
  }
  
  path.reverse()

> }

Reviewer: Formatowanie kodu jest nieczytelne

```

#### Detecting cycle in undirected graph

```swift

var visited: Set<Node> = []

func dfs(_ root: TreeNode?) {	

  guard let root = root else {	
		return
	}

	visited.insert(root)
	let children = root.children

	for child in children {
		if !visited.contains(child) {
				dfs(child)
		} else if child != previous {

>     		// here we can be sure that we don't have a cycle consists of two elements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    		// here we can be sure that we don't have a cycle consisting of two elements
```

Reviewer: Ta wersja DFS różni się od pierwszej wersji tylko tym `else` w którym nic się nie dzieje. Co powinno się zadziać w tej pętli ?

Author: Dobra uwaga, tutaj chodzi o to, że jeżeli znaleźliśmy cykl to upewnumay się, że to nie są dwa elementy leżące obok siebie. Dodam trochę więcej komentarzy i widzę, że zapomniałem dodać parametru stack

		}
	}
}
```

#### Detecting cycle in a directed graph

Undirected graphs are much more easier to handle, because we don't care about direction of each edge. In this section I would like to show you how to detect the cycle in a directed graph and as well how to find a path for detected cycle. 

> There is two options to find a cycle:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two options to find a cycle:
```

        
   static func == (lhs: FindCycleWithColor2.TreeNode, rhs: FindCycleWithColor2.TreeNode) -> Bool {
       return lhs.value  == rhs.value
   }
        
    func hash(into hasher: inout Hasher) {
       hasher.combine(value)
      }
        
      let value: Int
       var children: [TreeNode]
        
       init(value: Int, children: [TreeNode]) {
           self.value = value
           self.children = children
        }
    }

var parent: [TreeNode: TreeNode?] = [:]
var visited: [TreeNode: NodeState] = [:]

func dfs(_ root: TreeNode?) {	

  guard let root = root else {	
		return
	}

	visited[root] = visiting
	let children = root.children

	for child in children {
		if visited[child] == unvisited {
				dfs(child)
				parent[child] = root
		} else if visited[child] == visiting {
			findCyclePath(child, root)
		}
	}

	visited[root] = .visited	
}

private func findCyclePath(_start: TreeNode?, end: TreeNode?) {
  	var path: [Int] = []
		 var parentElement = start
  	while parentElement != end {
    	  path.append(parentElement.id)
      	parentElement = parent[parentElement]
    }
}
```

2. Alternate way for finding cycle with DFS is the the usage of two arrays:

> - isVisited: [Bool]
> - inStack: [Bool] // track the items on which we go deep and then if we visited all branch then we need to clear it or it says taht we found a cycle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `var isVisited: [Bool]`
- `var inStack: [Bool]` - used to track the items on which we go deep and then if we visited all branches then we need to clear it or it say that we found a cycle
```

```swift
var visited: Set<Node> = []
var inStack: Set<Node> = []

func dfs(_ root: TreeNode?, stack: [Node]) {	

  guard let root = root else {	
		return
	}
	
	visited.insert(root)
	let children = root.children

	for child in children {
		if !visited.contains(child) {
				dfs(child, stack + child)
		} else if inStack.contains(child) {
	      print(stack)
		}
}
 
inStack.remove(root)
  
}
  
```

#### Summary

> Thank you for reading it! I hope it somehow was helpful to you. In terms of any questions please email me ;) 

Reviewer: możesz tutaj podać swój email

Author: Sure!!

### Visualization

#### DFS

As we said, the DFS is going branch by branch, is going deep as much as possible than it turns back and starts investigating a new branch. Having this in mind let's look at what could be the order of visiting nodes if we would start at node with id equal to 3:

<p align="center">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/swiftingio/blog/%2357-Algorithms-DFS-BFS/DFS.svg" width="643">
</p>

Algorithm starts with the selection of some first branch and goes to the end (end means that encounters node with no other children, or all the children are already visited):

Node 5 has no other children so we come back to the place when it can check another branch (it this case it will be a node 3)

And then algorithm starts to vist the new unexplored branch, so it goes to node one and then it finishes the job.

#### BFS

The visualization shows that we go level by level and I think this is the best way how we can imaging the algorithm .

<p align="center">

> <img src="
> https://raw.githubusercontent.com/swiftingio/blog/%2357-Algorithms-DFS-BFS/BFS.svg" width="643">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/swiftingio/blog/%2357-Algorithms-DFS-BFS/BFS.svg" width="643">
```

# Graph traversal algorithms: BFS & DFS

### Intro

Graphs for beginners seem really hard, but the truth is that they are not so difficult when you learn the basics and you really understand the main mechanisms. Let's start with some basic knowledge.

### What is a graph?

- Consists of nodes which are connected by edges

- Each edge can have a direction (directed graph) or not (undirected graph) 

- Additionally, graph can be weighted or not. Weighted means that edge has some value. It can for example represent the distance between two nodes. 

- Example of the graph you can see here (Undirected Cyclic Graph):

<p align="center">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/swiftingio/blog/%2357-Algorithms-DFS-BFS/Graph.svg " width="643">
</p>
  
### Graph representation

> Typically we represent a graph by adjacency list (is the most popular option). Every node has a list pointing to another nodes to which has a connection. For an implementation point of view we can use for that a dicionary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically we represent a graph by adjacency list (it is the most popular option). Every node has a list pointing to other nodes to which it has a connection. For an implementation point of view we can use for that a dictionary.
```

> For example, we can construct a adjacancy list like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, we can construct an adjacency list like this:
```

```swift
var adjList: [Int: [Int]] = [:]

adjList[1] = [2, 3]
adjList[2] = [1, 4]
adjList[3] = [1, 4]
adjList[2] = [5]

```

The second option to represent a graph is a matrix:

| 0    | 1    | 1    | 0    | 0    |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| 1    | 0    | 0    | 0    | 1    |
| 1    | 0    | 0    | 1    | 0    |
| 0    | 1    | 1    | 1    | 0    |
| 0    | 1    | 0    | 0    | 0    |

> that shows that element node 1 (columns 1) is connected with node 2 and 3 (so that's why row 2 and row 4 has ones in column 1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This matrix shows that element node 1 (columns 1) is connected with node 2 and 3 (so that's why row 2 and row 4 has ones in column 1).
```

> Then node 2 (column 2) is connected with node 1, 4, 5 (that's why in row 1, 4 and 5 have ones in column 2), etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then node 2 (column 2) is connected with node 1, 4, 5 (that's why in row 1, 4 and 5 there is "1" in column 2), etc.
```

> To be honest I have never used matrix representation in any graph related problem, but for sure is good to know that exists this kind of representation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be honest I have never used matrix representation in any graph related problem, but for sure it is good to know that this kind of representation exists.
```

### Very popular graph terms

> - **Cycle**: if within a graph we travel and meet the visited node once again: it means that we have a cycle in the graph. Is quite intersing topic, becuase first of all we can ask ourselves: what algorithm should we choose? DFS or BFS? Then to make things more complicated how to find a path of the cycle?

Reviewer: DFS i BFS pojawiają się w tym miejscu pierwszy raz. Skróty nie zostały wcześniej wyjaśnione a powinny. Wyjaśnienie jest poniżej,  pytanie według mnie nie pasuje do tej sekcji. Warto je zadać gdzieś w dalszych sekcjach artykułu albo zadać tutaj w jakiś inny sposób.

```suggestion
- **Cycle**: if within a graph we travel and meet the visited node once again: it means that we have a cycle in the graph. Finding a path of a cycle can be complicated and we can use an algorithm to do that (BFS or DFS - more about them in further parts of the article).
```

<p align="center">

> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/swiftingio/blog/%2357-Algorithms-DFS-BFS/Cycle.svg" width="643">

Reviewer: Chyba plik .svg się nie wgrał, albo markdown nie renderuje svg 😉

</p>

> - **Connected component (cc)**: we can imagine connected component as a lonly island which is not connected to other lands. There exist algorithms for finding connected components in the graph. I hope in the future as well write more about it in the sepearated post.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Connected component (cc)**: we can imagine a connected component as a lonely island which is not connected to other lands. There exist algorithms for finding connected components in the graph. I hope in the future I will write more about it in a separate post.
```

<p align="center">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/swiftingio/blog/%2357-Algorithms-DFS-BFS/ConnectedComponents.svg" width="643">
</p>

### The most popular graph traversal algorithm

Let's focus on the main subject of this post: Graph traversal algorithms. We can distinguish two:

- DFS (Depth First Search)

> - BFS (Breath First Search)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- BFS (Breadth First Search)
```

Reviewer: Chyba że ma zapierać dech w piersiach, to wtedy `Breath` 😁

> Is really important to understand how they work and when they are most useful (in which use case). Below I tried to highlight the main features of both ones. I presented it in the table for a better understanding of the difference between them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is really important to understand how they work and when they are most useful (in which use case). Below I tried to highlight the main features of both. I presented it in the table for a better understanding of the difference between them.
```

| **Data structure used for iterative implementation** | Stack                                                        | Queue                                                        |
| **Visiting nodes order**                             | Branch by branch (so it goes by depth as much as possible, then it switches to the next branch) | It visits the nodes level by level. First, it starts with the nearest neighborhood of starting node and then it goes to the next level etc. |
| **Cyclce detection**                                 | Commonly used for cycle detection                            | Not very efficient for finding a cycle in the graph.        |
| **Complexity**                                       | O(V+ E)                                                      | O(V+ E)                                                      |
| **Practice**                                         | - https://leetcode.com/problems/shortest-path-in-a-grid-with-obstacles-elimination/description/ | https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-genetic-mutation/solution/    https://leetcode.com/problems/nearest-exit-from-entrance-in-maze/ |

### Visualization

#### DFS

> As we said, the DFS is going branch by branch, is going deep as much as possible than it turns back and starts investigating a new branch. Having this in mind let's look at what could be the order of visiting nodes if we would start at node with id equal to 3:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we said, the DFS is going branch by branch, is going deep as much as possible than it turns back and starts investigating a new branch. Having this in mind let's look at what could be the order of visiting nodes if we started from the node with an id equal to 3:
```

<p align="center">

> <img src="
> https://raw.githubusercontent.com/swiftingio/blog/%2357-Algorithms-DFS-BFS/DFS.svg" width="643">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/swiftingio/blog/%2357-Algorithms-DFS-BFS/DFS.svg" width="643">
```

And then algorithm starts to vist the new unexplored branch, so it goes to node one and then it finishes the job.

#### BFS

The visualization shows that we go level by level and I think this is the best way how we can imaging the algorithm .

<p align="center">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/swiftingio/blog/%2357-Algorithms-DFS-BFS/BFS.svg" width="643">
</p>

If we start with node id = 3 (first layer), then we visit 1 and 4 (second layer) then 2 (third layer) and last will be 5 (fourth layer).

### Implementation

Having this knowledge let's implement DFS and BFS in Swift. Additionally let's take a look at some additional topics which are very interesting as well:

- Finding the shortest path with unweighted graph
- Finding a cycle in an undirected graph
- Finding a cycle in a directed graph

#### DFS

```swift
var visited: Set<Int> = []

func dfs(_ root: TreeNode?)  {

	guard let root = root else {
		return
	}

	visited.insert(root.val)

	for child in root.children {
		if !visited.contains(child.val) {
			dfs(child)
		}
	}
}
```

#### BFS

```swift

> class TreeNode {
> 	let id: Int
> 	let children: [TreNode]
> 	
> 	init(_ id: Int, _ children: [TreNode] = []) {
> 		self.id = id
> 		self.children = children
> 	}
> }

Reviewer: Czy `TreeNode` może być strukturą? Wydaje mi się, że prostszy typ (bez jawnego `init`a) będzie łatwiejszy do zrozumienia przez czytelnika.

```suggestion
struct TreeNode {
	let id: Int
	let children: [TreNode]
}
```

func bfs(_ start: Node) {

	var queue: [Node] = []
	var visited: Set<Node> = []

	queue.append(start)

> 	while !queue.isEmpty {
>   		for item in queue {
>   		let first = queue.removeFirst()
>    			for child in first.children {
> 				if !visited.contains(child) {
> 					visited.insert(child)
> 					queue.append(child)
> 				}
> 			}
> 		}
> 	}

Reviewer: Tutaj nadal jest crashujący kod. Iterujesz po elementach `queue` a później zmieniasz zawartość `queue`.
```suggestion
	while !queue.isEmpty {
  		let first = queue.removeFirst()
   		for child in first.children {
			if !visited.contains(child) {
				visited.insert(child)
				queue.append(child)
			}			
		}
	}
```

Reviewer: Tak jak zaznaczyłem w podsumowaniu review - z jakiegoś powodu ten kod u nie nie crashuje, ale nie wiem dlaczego ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ 

```
class TreeNode {
    let id: Int
    let children: [TreeNode]
    
    init(id: Int, children: [TreeNode] = []) {
        self.id = id
        self.children = children
    }
}

func bfs(_ start: TreeNode) {
    
    var queue: [TreeNode] = []
    var visited: Set<Int> = []
    
    queue.append(start)
    
    while !queue.isEmpty {
        for item in queue {
            
            let currentNode = queue.removeFirst()
            
            print("Visiting ", currentNode.id)
            
            for child in item.children {
                if !visited.contains(child.id) {
                    visited.insert(child.id)
                    queue.append(child)
                }
            }
        }
    }
    print("Visited: ", visited)
}

let tree = TreeNode(id: 0, children: [TreeNode(id: 1, children: [TreeNode(id: 2, children: []), TreeNode(id: 3, children: [TreeNode(id: 4, children: [])])]), TreeNode(id: 5, children: [])])

bfs(tree)
```

Author: Nie będzie crashować :P

Reviewer: Ok😁 W takim razie nie pamiętam, kiedy występuje crash `collection was mutated while being enumerated` 🤷‍♂️

}	
```

#### BFS + shortest path

Implementation with additional finding distance from the start node and printing a path (an important note here is that here we are discussing unweighted graphs. If we want to find the shortest distance for a weighted graph, we need to consider another algorithm like [Dijktstra's algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dijkstra%27s_algorithm)).

```swift
func bfs(_ start: Node) {
	var queue: [Node] = []
	var visited: Set<Node> = []
	var distance: [Node: Int] = [:]
	var parent: [Node: Node] = [:]

	queue.append(start)

	while !queue.isEmpty {
		for item in queue {

> 			let first = queue.removeFirst()

Reviewer: tutaj też będzie crash

Author: Nie

Reviewer: Oj no już dobrze, dobrze, przestaję się tego czepiać 😁

			for child in first.children {
				if !visited.contains(child) {
					dist[child] = dist[item] + 1
					parent[child] = item 
  					visited.insert(child)
					queue.append(child)
				}
			}
		}
	}
}

func getPath(_ target: Node, _ start: Node) {
  var x = target
  var path: [Int] = []
  
  path.append(target)
  
  while x != start {
    x = parent[x]
    path.append(x)
  }
  
  path.reverse()
}
```

> #### Detecting cycle in undirected graph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Detecting cycle in an undirected graph
```

```swift

> var visited: Set<Node> = []
> 
> func dfs(_ root: TreeNode?, stack: [Int]) {	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
var visited: Set<TreeNode> = []

func dfs(_ root: TreeNode?, stack: [Int]) {	
```

Rozbieżność w całym pliku - raz jest `Node` raz jest `TreeNode`. Uspójnij - niech wszędzie będzie używany ten sam typ.

Author: Zatem będzie Node 👍

Author: Zatem będzie Node 👍

	guard let root = root else {
		return
  	}

	visited.insert(root)
	let children = root.children
	for child in children {
		if !visited.contains(child) {

> 			dfs(child, stack + child)

Reviewer: type mismatch? child jest typu `TreeNode` a stack typu`[Int]`

Author: Fixed

		} else if child != previous {

>     		// here we can be sure that we don't have a cycle consists of only two elements
>     		// and then we can print stack starting from child

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    		// here we can be sure that we don't have a cycle which consists of only two elements
    		// and then we can print stack starting from child
```

To może warto dodać implementację takiej funkcji printującej całą ścieżkę i wywołać ją w tym miejscu 😉

Author: done

		}
	}
}
```

#### Detecting cycle in a directed graph

> Undirected graphs are much more easier to handle, because we don't care about direction of each edge. In this section I would like to show you how to detect the cycle in a directed graph and as well how to find a path for detected cycle. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Undirected graphs are much easier to handle, because we don't care about direction of each edge. In this section I would like to show you how to detect the cycle in a directed graph and as well how to find a path for detected cycle. 
```

There are two options to find a cycle:

1. DFS with node coloring

```swift
enum NodeState {
	case unvisited
	case visiting
  	case visited
}

class TreeNode: Hashable {
        

>    static func == (lhs: FindCycleWithColor2.TreeNode, rhs: FindCycleWithColor2.TreeNode) -> Bool {

Reviewer: Typ/Framework `FindCycleWithColor2` nie istnieje w tym pliku - kod by się nie skompilował.

Author: Ogarnięte 👍

   	return lhs.value  == rhs.value
   }
        
   func hash(into hasher: inout Hasher) {
   	hasher.combine(value)
   }
        
   let value: Int
   var children: [TreeNode]
        
   init(value: Int, children: [TreeNode]) {
      self.value = value
      self.children = children
   }
}

var parent: [TreeNode: TreeNode?] = [:]
var visited: [TreeNode: NodeState] = [:]

func dfs(_ root: TreeNode?) {	

  guard let root = root else {	
	return
  }
  

>   visited[root] = visiting
>   let children = root.children
>  
>   for child in children {
> 	if visited[child] == unvisited {
> 		dfs(child)
> 		parent[child] = root
> 	} else if visited[child] == visiting {
> 		findCyclePath(child, root)
> 	}
>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  visited[root] = .visiting
  let children = root.children
 
  for child in children {
	if visited[child] == .unvisited {
		dfs(child)
		parent[child] = root
	} else if visited[child] == .visiting {
		findCyclePath(child, root)
	}
  }
```

Author: Fixed

  visited[root] = .visited	
}

private func findCyclePath(_start: TreeNode?, end: TreeNode?) {
  	var path: [Int] = []
	var parentElement = start
  	while parentElement != end {
  		path.append(parentElement.id)
  		parentElement = parent[parentElement]
    }
}
```

2. Alternate way for finding cycle with DFS is the the usage of two arrays:

- `var isVisited: [Bool]`
- `var inStack: [Bool]` - used to track the items on which we go deep and then if we visited all branches then we need to clear it or it say that we found a cycle

```swift
var visited: Set<Node> = []
var inStack: Set<Node> = []

func dfs(_ root: TreeNode?, stack: [Node]) {	
	guard let root = root else {	
		return
	}
	
	visited.insert(root)
	let children = root.children

	for child in children {
		if !visited.contains(child) {
			dfs(child, stack + child)
		} else if inStack.contains(child) {
			print(stack)
		}
	}

> 	inStack.remove(root)

Reviewer: Do `inStack` nie jest nigdzie dodawany żaden `Node`. Kod tej funkcji jedynie usuwa `root` z tego property.

Author: Fixed
